README.md, before:

# Docker PHP

A project that easily provides a php developer's standard environment using Docker with the most important features:

* PHP 7
* XDebug
* NGinx
* Memcached
* MariaDB
* Redis
* ElasticSearch

## Install/Configure

### Download the project:

1. Download the project to somewhere in your machine, for example: /dockerphp
2. Access the project folder, for example: cd /dockerphp

### If using Docker Machine:

If you are on MAC OS you'll need to install Docker Machine to virtualize a Linux OS Kernel. After install Docker Machine, create one:

Start Docker Machine by typing:

```
bin/machine-start.sh
eval $(docker-machine env dev)
```

Recreate Docker Machine by typing:

```
bin/machine-recreate.sh
eval $(docker-machine env dev)
```

### Select ENV or PROD environment configuration ####

1. open bin/environment.sh file
2. set the ENV=dev or ENV=prod

### Build and runnig:

```
bin/build.sh
```

### Access from your local machine

If using docher-machine, discover your virtual ip by typing:
```
bin/machine-ip.sh
```

Access in your browser:
```
http://YOUR_IP:8080
```

YOUR_IP = localhost or docher-machine ip.

### Stopping:

```
docker-compose kill
```

### List all containers

```
bin/container-list.sh
```

### List all images

```
bin/container-list-images.sh
```

### Forcing removal all containers

```
bin/container-remove-all.sh
```

### Forcing removal all images

```
bin/container-remove-all-images.sh
```

### Discovering errors/viewing logs

```
docker-compose logs
```

### Running commands inside the container

```
bin/container-bash-execute.sh dockerphp 'curl localhost:8080'
```

### Access container Bash (line command)

```
bin/container-bash.sh
```

### Get container IP

```
bin/container-ip.sh dockerphp-mariadb
```

## Accessing the services containers from inside dockerphp container

```
dockerphp-mariadb:3306
dockerphp-redis:6380
dockerphp-memcached:11211
dockerphp-elasticsearch1:9200
```

### Accessing MariaDB:

```
bin/mariadb-connect.sh
```

### Accessing Redis:

```
bin/redis-connect.sh
```

### Test Elasticsearch cluster status

```
bin/elasticsearch-status.sh
```

## Saving/Loading

To avoid lose image content you can backup/load it by:

### Saving image

```
bin/image-save.sh dockerphp_web
```

### Loading image

```
bin/image-load.sh dockerphp_web
```

## Container startup problems

If you are getting any container startup issues, for example if your container keep restarting, you can use the command bellow to start the container with debug mode.

```
bin/container-restart.sh dockerphp-mariadb
```

Commit message:

make things simpler by removing docher-machine needs

README.md, after:

# Docker PHP

A project that easily provides a php developer's standard environment using Docker with the most important features:

* PHP 7
* XDebug
* NGinx
* Memcached
* MariaDB
* Redis
* ElasticSearch

## Install/Configure

### Download the project:

1. Download the project to somewhere in your computer, for example: /dockerphp
2. Access the project folder, for example: cd /dockerphp

### If using Docker for MacOS

Download Docker for MacOS here:

https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/#/download-docker-for-mac

1. Download and install Docker for Mac
2. Start it as the documentation shows!

### Select ENV or PROD environment configuration ####

1. open bin/environment.sh file
2. set the ENV=dev or ENV=prod

### Build and runnig:

```
bin/build.sh
```

Access in your browser:
```
http://localhost
```

### Stopping:

```
docker-compose kill
```

### List all containers

```
bin/container-list.sh
```

### List all images

```
bin/container-list-images.sh
```

### Forcing removal all containers

```
bin/container-remove-all.sh
```

### Forcing removal all images

```
bin/container-remove-all-images.sh
```

### Discovering errors/viewing logs

```
docker-compose logs
```

### Running commands inside the container

```
bin/container-bash-execute.sh dockerphp 'curl localhost:8080'
```

### Access container Bash (line command)

```
bin/container-bash.sh
```

### Get container IP

```
bin/container-ip.sh dockerphp-mariadb
```

## Accessing the services containers from inside dockerphp container

```
dockerphp-mariadb:3306
dockerphp-redis:6380
dockerphp-memcached:11211
dockerphp-elasticsearch1:9200
```

### Accessing MariaDB:

```
bin/mariadb-connect.sh
```

### Accessing Redis:

```
bin/redis-connect.sh
```

### Test Elasticsearch cluster status

```
bin/elasticsearch-status.sh
```

## Saving/Loading

To avoid lose image content you can backup/load it by:

### Saving image

```
bin/image-save.sh dockerphp_web
```

### Loading image

```
bin/image-load.sh dockerphp_web
```

## Container startup problems

If you are getting any container startup issues, for example if your container keep restarting, you can use the command bellow to start the container with debug mode.

```
bin/container-restart.sh dockerphp-mariadb
```
